## Abstract

Discussions on time series forecasting problems have a long history, and such problems are of great significance for guiding human production and life, assisting scientific research etc. The multivariate time series forecasting is ubiquitous in real application scenarios, which predicts future values based on historical observation data of multiple variables. With the development of artificial intelligence technology, deep learning has become one of the mainstream methods to solve the time series forecasting problem. However, the increasingly higher model complexity and the difficult computational requirements have prompted people to explore new technologies to assist in timing forecasting.

With the rise of quantum computation, its potential advantages in information processing (such as quantum acceleration) make quantum computation considered promising to optimize classical time series prediction. Quantum deep learning combines the advantages of quantum computation and classical deep learning. It tries to improve the existing deep learning by constructing a quantum neural network which is analogous to the classical neural network, so that it can be used to solve the time series prediction problem.

Long short-term memory neural network (LSTM) is a classic deep learning model and it's widely used in time series prediction. In this work we attempt to construct a quantum enhanced LSTM model (QLSTM) by the well-designed quantum neural network layers (QNNs). Also, the proposed QLSTM model is used to solve the multivariate time series prediction problem.

The main works and contributions of this study include: (1) discussing the construction of the quantum neural network layers in detail, including designing a class of variational quantum circuits with well expressibility. Based on the hybrid quantum-classical neural network architecture, we construct the quantum-enhanced LSTM model and thus provide a reusable reference for building QNN-based quantum deep learning models. (2) using the constructed QLSTM model, a series of experiments 
are conducted on the quantum software development environment pyQpanda, which show that the proposed QLSTM model has certain feasibility and potential advantages in solving multivariate time series forecasting problems. (3) considering a series of methods for optimizing the proposed QLSTM models, including using classical deep learning experience to optimize and constructing a series of quantum-enhanced models corresponding to LSTM variants. Experimental results show that it's possible to optimize quantum deep learning models by using classical deep learning experiences. In addition, a series of general regularization methods for QNNs are designed in our work, and these methods have shown the usability in optimizing the performance of QLSTM models and improving the models' quantum noise robustness under our experiments.